# MEETING AGENDA

### Intros \- 5 min

### Walkthroughs (10 min each)

### Mathis:

* Compiler:  
  * imports, the version currently in the spec  
  * conditional compilation,  
  * eval() (unfinished),  
  * exec() (unfinished),  
  * some lowering (because naga doesn't support all wgsl, for example `alias T = u32; vec<T>` is not supported).

### Natalie Cuthbert:

* Compiler  
  * Usages  
    * Inline usages  
    * Use Statement  
    * How usages work in the compiler  
  * Generalised Aliasing  
  * Extends  
  * Untyped Templates  
    * With

### Mighdoll \- WGSL World Tour: 

### Mighdoll & Mathis \- Unconed: Discussions 

### Compiler that ships features not in specification? (5-10 min)  \- TO BE DISCUSSED LATER

*Currently both Mathis and Natalie Cuthbert’s experimental compilers include features that are **not** adopted or finalised in the WESL spec. What to do when you're beyond the specification and would like to ship these features?* 

*Context: Natalie Cuthbert wants to ship a particle simulation framework that leverages her compiler.* 

### MVP (10-15 min) \- TO BE DISCUSSED LATER

What do we ship to production first?

### WebGPU committee deliverables (10 min) \- TO BE DISCUSSED LATER


# MEETING NOTES

WGPU meet   
- Exposing TranslationUnit in Naga  
- Investigate “@link” attribute as an alternative to source maps

Natalie Presentation

- Bundling step aka “Get all the code”  
  - Starts with wesl.toml and imports  
  - All code goes into the same translation unit (parsed syntax trees)  
  - Produces a tree of parsed modules  
- Resolution step  
  - Fully resolve each relative path to its fully qualified name  
  - Imports are now done  
- Multiple steps happen after this to get from WESL to WGSL  
  - A single tree that gets repeatedly modified. At the end, it can safely be printed to WGSL.  
- extend foo means for(item in foo) alias item \= foo.item;  
- GenericModule with { ... } is a shorter and cleaner syntax for GenericModule\<param \= ..., param \= ..., param \= ...\>

Syntax highlighting

- We should get that to work pretty soon

Mathis Presentation

- WESL Playground  
- MVP could get away with imports and conditional compilation  
- Constants in one file, at runtime it generates a new version of the file and recompiles it  
  - Pipeline-overridable constants were limited for arrays. Seems to no longer be an issue.  
- Conditional compilation  
  - Host provides boolean values. Extremely basic expression evaluation (&& || \!)  
- Imports  
  - Works with virtual filesystems  
  - Can be combined with conditional compilation  
- Eval feature  
  - Run WGSL code on the CPU  
  - Future: Shader debugger running on the CPU  
  - const\_assert can be executed in the IDE, check as soon as possible  
- ChatGPT test generation  
  - Generates JSON file of tests  
  - Parsing tests  
  - Eval tests  
- gpuweb has an extensive test suite  
  - We should look into using it  
- Name mangling: We should reconsider the strategies of  
  - Linker says “don’t mangle these items”  
  - Linker says “give me the mangled names for these items”

WGSL world tour

- (Almost) no need for “inserting code”  
- Lots of WGSL code out there\!   
- Current projects are not big  
- 3 things that people do a lot  
  - Modules system (imports please)  
  - Preprocessor (\~conditional compilation)  
  - Same code keeps getting implemented (random, color space conversions, prefix sum, ...)  
- Fancy stuff that people keep looking for  
  - Debugging  
  - Performance  
  - Integrate with the host language  
    - How can we make this easier?  
  - Testing shaders  
    - e.g. How does one do a “print()” in a shader?