## Naming Conventions

- Prefer `_` (underscore) over `-` (dash) in package names.
  Embedded `-` characters aren't allowed in WGSL and WESL identifiers
  (it would create ambiguity with minus).

- Add `keywords` `["WGSL", "WESL", "WebGPU"]`
  in `Cargo.toml` and `package.json`
   to make packages easy to find.

- Consider naming shader packages with a `_wgsl` suffix to make shader packages easy to find.

## Publishing a package to [npm.js]

Use [wesl-packager] to gather
WGSL and WESL shader modules into an npm package.

### Command Line Tools

Here's an example, creating a bundled package in the `dist` directory
from sources in the `src/shaders` directory.

```sh
npx wesl-packager --rootDir src/shaders --outDir dist
```

Add the files generated by [wesl-packager] to the package's `package.json`:

```js
/// in package.json
  "exports": {
    ".": {
      "types": "./dist/weslBundle.d.ts",
      "import": "./dist/weslBundle.js"
    }
  },
```

### npm Shader Package Format

The format generated for shader packages (and consumed by the WESL JavaScript/TypeScript tools)
is a [WeslBundle]:

```ts
export interface WeslBundle {
  /** name of the package, e.g. random_wgsl */
  name: string;

  /** wesl edition of the code e.g. 2026_pre */
  edition: string;

  /** map of wesl/wgsl modules:
   *    keys are file paths, relative to package root (e.g. "./lib.wgsl")
   *    values are wgsl/wesl code strings
   */
  modules: Record<string, string>;

  /** packages referenced by this package */
  dependencies?: WeslBundle[];
}
```

Shaders are bundled simply as strings with relative file paths in the `modules` field.

`dependencies` reference import statements in the js output bundle
so that shader packages can depend on other packages.
Shader dependency versioning is handled by the package manager.

#### Importing and lib.wesl

npm package users can easily use the shader package in their own shaders.
For a new package called `foo_wgsl`:

1. `npm add foo_wgsl`
1. import from the package in WESL, using module paths with `::` separators:

    ```rust
    import foo_wgsl::util::foo;  

    fn main() {
      foo();
    }
    ```

To keep things short, the special module name `lib.wesl` is addressable at the root level of the package:

```rust
fn main() {
   foo_wgsl::bar();
}
```

#### Package Name Sanitization

Because `-`, `/`, or `@` characters are not valid as WGSL/WESL identifiers,
WESL build tools automatically sanitize npm package names so
that they can be used in WESL `import` statements and inline module references.
The invalid characters are removed or replaced with underscore:
- `@` ==> (removed)
- `/` ==> `__` 
- `-` ==> `_` 

| npm package name | WESL module path | WESL example |
|:-----------------|:-----------------|:-------------|
| `random-wgsl` | `random_wgsl` | `import random_wgsl::pcgRand;` |
| `@foobar/shader-utils` | `foobar__shader_utils` | `import foobar__shader_utils::zip;` |

Prefer npm package names without `-`, `/`, or `@` characters
to keep things simple for users.

### wesl-packager Options

The [wesl-packager] has some options:

#### Location for Files

- **--src**  WGSL/WESL shader files to bundle into the package, using glob syntax.
(_default: `./shaders/*.w[eg]sl`_)

- **--rootDir**  base directory containing WGSL/WESL files.
  The source files are mapped to imports starting at the base directory.
  (_default: `./shaders`_)

- **--outDir** where to put bundled output files relative to `projectDir`
(_default: "dist"_)

- **--projectDir** directory containing package.json (_default: current directory_).

#### Shader Bundling Mode

- **--multiBundle**  Make a shader bundle for each source file (instead of a single
  bundle for all shader files). (_default no-multiBundle_)

#### Writing Entries into Package.json

- **--updatePackageJson**  write 'exports' entries into package.json (_default: no-updatePackageJson_)

- **--exportName**  `package.json` export name for this consolidated bundle.
This flag is ignored for multiBundle mode. (_default: "."_).

## Publishing a Package to [crates.io]

See rust example [here](https://github.com/wgsl-tooling-wg/wesl-rs/tree/main/examples/random_wgsl)

[crates.io]: https://crates.io/
[npm.js]: https://npmjs.com/
[wesl-packager]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/wesl-packager
[WeslBundle]: https://js.wesl-lang.dev/interfaces/WeslBundle
[wesl.toml]: getting-started-javascript#wesltoml
